docs/guides/troubleshooting.md, before:

# Troubleshooting and FAQ
This page addresses frequently asked questions (FAQ) and provides troubleshooting steps for common issues encountered while using Agent Zero.

## Frequently Asked Questions
**1. How do I ask Agent Zero to work directly on my files or dirs?**
- Place the files/dirs in `/a0/usr`. Agent Zero will be able to perform tasks on them.

**2. When I input something in the chat, nothing happens. What's wrong?**
- Check if you have set up API keys in the Settings page. If not, the application cannot call LLM providers.

**3. I get “Invalid model ID.” What does that mean?**
- Verify the **provider** and **model naming**. For example, `openai/gpt-5.3` is correct for OpenRouter, but **incorrect** for the native OpenAI provider, which goes without prefix.

**4. Does ChatGPT Plus include API access?**
- No. ChatGPT Plus does not include API credits. You must provide an OpenAI API key in Settings.

**5. Where is chat history stored?**
- Chat history lives at `/a0/usr/chats/` inside the container.

**6. How do I integrate open-source models with Agent Zero?**
Refer to the [Choosing your LLMs](../setup/installation.md#installing-and-using-ollama-local-models) section for configuring local models (Ollama, LM Studio, etc.).

> [!TIP]
> Some LLM providers offer free usage tiers, for example Groq, Mistral, SambaNova, or CometAPI.

**7. How can I make Agent Zero retain memory between sessions?**
Use **Settings → Backup & Restore** and avoid mapping the entire `/a0` directory. See [How to update Agent Zero](../setup/installation.md#how-to-update-agent-zero).

**8. My browser agent fails or is unreliable. What now?**
The built-in browser agent is currently unstable on some systems. Use Skills or MCP alternatives such as Browser OS, Chrome DevTools, or Vercel's Agent Browser. See [MCP Setup](mcp-setup.md).

**9. My secrets disappeared after a backup restore.**
Secrets are stored in `/a0/usr/secrets.env` and are not always included in backup archives. Copy them manually.

**10. Where can I find more documentation or tutorials?**
- Join the Agent Zero [Skool](https://www.skool.com/agent-zero) or [Discord](https://discord.gg/B8KZKNsPpj) community.

**11. How do I adjust API rate limits?**
Use the model rate limit fields in Settings (Chat/Utility/Browser model sections) to set request/input/output limits. These map to the model config limits (for example `limit_requests`, `limit_input`, `limit_output`).

**12. My `code_execution_tool` doesn't work, what's wrong?**
- Ensure Docker is installed and running.
- On macOS, grant Docker Desktop access to your project files.
- Verify that the Docker image is updated.

**13. Can Agent Zero interact with external APIs or services (e.g., WhatsApp)?**
Yes, by creating custom tools or using MCP servers. See [Extensions](../developer/extensions.md) and [MCP Setup](mcp-setup.md).

## Troubleshooting

**Installation**
- **Docker Issues:** If Docker containers fail to start, consult the Docker documentation and verify your Docker installation and configuration.  On macOS, ensure you've granted Docker access to your project files in Docker Desktop's settings as described in the [Installation guide](../setup/installation.md#4-install-docker-docker-desktop-application). Verify that the Docker image is updated.
- **Web UI not reachable:** Ensure at least one host port is mapped to container port `80`. If you used `0:80`, check the assigned port in Docker Desktop.

**Usage**

- **Terminal commands not executing:** Ensure the Docker container is running and properly configured.  Check SSH settings if applicable. Check if the Docker image is updated by removing it from Docker Desktop app, and subsequently pulling it again.

* **Error Messages:** Pay close attention to the error messages displayed in the Web UI or terminal.  They often provide valuable clues for diagnosing the issue. Refer to the specific error message in online searches or community forums for potential solutions.

* **Performance Issues:** If Agent Zero is slow or unresponsive, it might be due to resource limitations, network latency, or the complexity of your prompts and tasks, especially when using local models.

Commit message:

Add Codex ChatGPT subscription provider with per-role models and docs

docs/guides/troubleshooting.md, after:

# Troubleshooting and FAQ
This page addresses frequently asked questions (FAQ) and provides troubleshooting steps for common issues encountered while using Agent Zero.

## Frequently Asked Questions
**1. How do I ask Agent Zero to work directly on my files or dirs?**
- Place the files/dirs in `/a0/usr`. Agent Zero will be able to perform tasks on them.

**2. When I input something in the chat, nothing happens. What's wrong?**
- Check if you have set up API keys in the Settings page. If not, the application cannot call LLM providers.

**3. I get “Invalid model ID.” What does that mean?**
- Verify the **provider** and **model naming**. For example, `openai/gpt-5.3` is correct for OpenRouter, but **incorrect** for the native OpenAI provider, which goes without prefix.

**4. Does ChatGPT Plus include API access?**
- No. ChatGPT Plus does not include API credits. You must provide an OpenAI API key in Settings.

**4a. Can I use ChatGPT subscription without OpenAI API billing?**
- Yes, by using the `Codex (ChatGPT subscription)` provider for Chat/Utility/Browser roles.
- This provider relies on your local `codex` login status instead of API keys.
- Use **Settings → Agent Settings → ChatGPT Subscription** to connect/disconnect and verify status.

**4b. Codex provider is selected but calls fail. What should I check?**
- Verify `codex` is installed and available on PATH.
- Run `codex login status` locally and confirm it reports logged in.
- In Agent Zero Settings, check Codex status diagnostics for the selected role.
- If Codex fails, Agent Zero can temporarily fallback to previous non-codex provider and show a warning banner.
- If you enabled unrestricted full-auto for Codex, make sure you trust the execution environment.

**4c. UI shows the same Codex model in Chat/Utility/Browser, but backend values are different.**
- Confirm saved values with:
  ```bash
  cd agent-zero
  ./.venv/bin/python - <<'PY'
  from python.helpers import settings
  s=settings.get_settings()
  print("chat:", s["chat_model_name"])
  print("util:", s["util_model_name"])
  print("browser:", s["browser_model_name"])
  PY
  ```
- If backend is correct, update to latest frontend patch and hard-refresh browser.
- Reopen Settings and verify each role field shows its own value.

**4d. Where is the full setup guide for ChatGPT subscription mode?**
- See [Codex Subscription Guide](codex-subscription.md) for login flow, model selection, screenshots, and verification checklist.

**5. Where is chat history stored?**
- Chat history lives at `/a0/usr/chats/` inside the container.

**6. How do I integrate open-source models with Agent Zero?**
Refer to the [Choosing your LLMs](../setup/installation.md#installing-and-using-ollama-local-models) section for configuring local models (Ollama, LM Studio, etc.).

> [!TIP]
> Some LLM providers offer free usage tiers, for example Groq, Mistral, SambaNova, or CometAPI.

**7. How can I make Agent Zero retain memory between sessions?**
Use **Settings → Backup & Restore** and avoid mapping the entire `/a0` directory. See [How to update Agent Zero](../setup/installation.md#how-to-update-agent-zero).

**8. My browser agent fails or is unreliable. What now?**
The built-in browser agent is currently unstable on some systems. Use Skills or MCP alternatives such as Browser OS, Chrome DevTools, or Vercel's Agent Browser. See [MCP Setup](mcp-setup.md).

**9. My secrets disappeared after a backup restore.**
Secrets are stored in `/a0/usr/secrets.env` and are not always included in backup archives. Copy them manually.

**10. Where can I find more documentation or tutorials?**
- Join the Agent Zero [Skool](https://www.skool.com/agent-zero) or [Discord](https://discord.gg/B8KZKNsPpj) community.

**11. How do I adjust API rate limits?**
Use the model rate limit fields in Settings (Chat/Utility/Browser model sections) to set request/input/output limits. These map to the model config limits (for example `limit_requests`, `limit_input`, `limit_output`).

**12. My `code_execution_tool` doesn't work, what's wrong?**
- Ensure Docker is installed and running.
- On macOS, grant Docker Desktop access to your project files.
- Verify that the Docker image is updated.

**13. Can Agent Zero interact with external APIs or services (e.g., WhatsApp)?**
Yes, by creating custom tools or using MCP servers. See [Extensions](../developer/extensions.md) and [MCP Setup](mcp-setup.md).

## Troubleshooting

**Installation**
- **Docker Issues:** If Docker containers fail to start, consult the Docker documentation and verify your Docker installation and configuration.  On macOS, ensure you've granted Docker access to your project files in Docker Desktop's settings as described in the [Installation guide](../setup/installation.md#4-install-docker-docker-desktop-application). Verify that the Docker image is updated.
- **Web UI not reachable:** Ensure at least one host port is mapped to container port `80`. If you used `0:80`, check the assigned port in Docker Desktop.

**Usage**

- **Terminal commands not executing:** Ensure the Docker container is running and properly configured.  Check SSH settings if applicable. Check if the Docker image is updated by removing it from Docker Desktop app, and subsequently pulling it again.

* **Error Messages:** Pay close attention to the error messages displayed in the Web UI or terminal.  They often provide valuable clues for diagnosing the issue. Refer to the specific error message in online searches or community forums for potential solutions.

* **Performance Issues:** If Agent Zero is slow or unresponsive, it might be due to resource limitations, network latency, or the complexity of your prompts and tasks, especially when using local models.
