docs/quickstart.md, before:

# Quick Start
This guide provides a quick introduction to using Agent Zero. We'll cover the essential installation steps and running your first Skill.

## Installation Steps

### Step 1: Install Docker Desktop

Download and install Docker Desktop for your operating system:

- **Windows:** Download from [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/) and run the installer with default settings
- **macOS:** Download for Apple Silicon or Intel, drag to Applications, and enable the Docker socket in Settings → Advanced
- **Linux:** Install Docker Desktop or docker-ce following the [official instructions](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/linux-install/)

> [!TIP]
> For complete OS-specific installation instructions, see the [full Installation Guide](setup/installation.md#step-1-install-docker-desktop).

### Step 2: Pull the Agent Zero Image

Using Docker Desktop GUI, search for `ghcr.io/jrmatherly/agent-zero` and click Pull, or use the terminal:

```bash
docker pull ghcr.io/jrmatherly/agent-zero
```

### Step 3: Run the Container

**Using Docker Desktop:** Go to Images tab, click Run next to `ghcr.io/jrmatherly/agent-zero`, open Optional settings, map a host port to container port `80` (use `0` for automatic assignment), then click Run.

**Using Terminal:**

```bash
docker run -p 0:80 ghcr.io/jrmatherly/agent-zero
```

The container will start in a few seconds. Find the mapped port in Docker Desktop (shown as `<PORT>:80`).

### Step 4: Open the Web UI and Configure API Key

Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:<PORT>`. The Web UI will show a warning banner about missing API key.

![Agent Zero Web UI](res/setup/6-docker-a0-running-new.png)

Click **Add your API key** to open Settings and configure:

- **Default Provider:** OpenRouter (supports most models with a single API key)
- **Alternative Providers:** Anthropic, OpenAI, Ollama/LM Studio (local models), and many others
- **Model Selection:** Choose your chat model (e.g., `anthropic/claude-sonnet-4-5` for OpenRouter)

> [!NOTE]
> Agent Zero supports any LLM provider, including local models via Ollama. For detailed provider configuration and local model setup, see the [Installation Guide](setup/installation.md#choosing-your-llms).

### Step 5: Start Your First Chat

Once configured, you'll see the Agent Zero dashboard with access to:

- **Projects** - organize your work into projects
- **Memory** - open the memory dashboard
- **Scheduler** - create and manage planned tasks
- **Files** - open the File Browser
- **Settings** - configure models and preferences
- **System Stats** - monitor resource usage

Click **New Chat** to start creating with Agent Zero!

![Agent Zero Dashboard](res/quickstart/ui_newchat1.png)

> [!TIP]
> The Web UI provides a comprehensive chat actions dropdown with options for managing conversations, including creating new chats, resetting, saving/loading, and many more advanced features. Chats are saved in JSON format in the `/usr/chats` directory.
>
> ![Chat Actions Dropdown](res/quickstart/ui_chat_management.png)

---

## Example Interaction
Let's ask Agent Zero to use one of the built-in skills. Here's how:

1. Type "Activate your brainstorming skill" in the chat input field and press Enter or click the send button.
2. Agent Zero will process your request. You'll see its thoughts and tool calls in the UI.
3. The agent will acknowledge the skill activation and ask you for a follow-up on the brainstorming request.

Here's an example of what you might see in the Web UI at step 3:

![1](res/quickstart/image-24.png)

## Next Steps
Now that you've run a simple task, you can experiment with more complex requests. Try asking Agent Zero to:

- Connect to your email
- Execute shell commands
- Develop skills
- Explore web development tasks
- Develop the application itself

### [Open Usage Guide](guides/usage.md)

Provides more in-depth information on tools, projects, tasks, and backup/restore.

## 🎓 Video Tutorials
- [MCP Server Setup](https://youtu.be/pM5f4Vz3_IQ)
- [Projects & Workspaces](https://youtu.be/RrTDp_v9V1c)
- [Memory Management](https://youtu.be/sizjAq2-d9s)

Commit message:

feat: Rename project from Agent Zero to Apollos AI and update associated agent files and configuration.

docs/quickstart.md, after:

# Quick Start
This guide provides a quick introduction to using Apollos AI. We'll cover the essential installation steps and running your first Skill.

## Installation Steps

### Step 1: Install Docker Desktop

Download and install Docker Desktop for your operating system:

- **Windows:** Download from [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/) and run the installer with default settings
- **macOS:** Download for Apple Silicon or Intel, drag to Applications, and enable the Docker socket in Settings → Advanced
- **Linux:** Install Docker Desktop or docker-ce following the [official instructions](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/linux-install/)

> [!TIP]
> For complete OS-specific installation instructions, see the [full Installation Guide](setup/installation.md#step-1-install-docker-desktop).

### Step 2: Pull the Apollos AI Image

Using Docker Desktop GUI, search for `ghcr.io/jrmatherly/apollos-ai` and click Pull, or use the terminal:

```bash
docker pull ghcr.io/jrmatherly/apollos-ai
```

### Step 3: Run the Container

**Using Docker Desktop:** Go to Images tab, click Run next to `ghcr.io/jrmatherly/apollos-ai`, open Optional settings, map a host port to container port `80` (use `0` for automatic assignment), then click Run.

**Using Terminal:**

```bash
docker run -p 0:80 ghcr.io/jrmatherly/apollos-ai
```

The container will start in a few seconds. Find the mapped port in Docker Desktop (shown as `<PORT>:80`).

### Step 4: Open the Web UI and Configure API Key

Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:<PORT>`. The Web UI will show a warning banner about missing API key.

![Apollos AI Web UI](res/setup/6-docker-a0-running-new.png)

Click **Add your API key** to open Settings and configure:

- **Default Provider:** OpenRouter (supports most models with a single API key)
- **Alternative Providers:** Anthropic, OpenAI, Ollama/LM Studio (local models), and many others
- **Model Selection:** Choose your chat model (e.g., `anthropic/claude-sonnet-4-5` for OpenRouter)

> [!NOTE]
> Apollos AI supports any LLM provider, including local models via Ollama. For detailed provider configuration and local model setup, see the [Installation Guide](setup/installation.md#choosing-your-llms).

### Step 5: Start Your First Chat

Once configured, you'll see the Apollos AI dashboard with access to:

- **Projects** - organize your work into projects
- **Memory** - open the memory dashboard
- **Scheduler** - create and manage planned tasks
- **Files** - open the File Browser
- **Settings** - configure models and preferences
- **System Stats** - monitor resource usage

Click **New Chat** to start creating with Apollos AI!

![Apollos AI Dashboard](res/quickstart/ui_newchat1.png)

> [!TIP]
> The Web UI provides a comprehensive chat actions dropdown with options for managing conversations, including creating new chats, resetting, saving/loading, and many more advanced features. Chats are saved in JSON format in the `/usr/chats` directory.
>
> ![Chat Actions Dropdown](res/quickstart/ui_chat_management.png)

---

## Example Interaction
Let's ask Apollos AI to use one of the built-in skills. Here's how:

1. Type "Activate your brainstorming skill" in the chat input field and press Enter or click the send button.
2. Apollos AI will process your request. You'll see its thoughts and tool calls in the UI.
3. The agent will acknowledge the skill activation and ask you for a follow-up on the brainstorming request.

Here's an example of what you might see in the Web UI at step 3:

![1](res/quickstart/image-24.png)

## Next Steps
Now that you've run a simple task, you can experiment with more complex requests. Try asking Apollos AI to:

- Connect to your email
- Execute shell commands
- Develop skills
- Explore web development tasks
- Develop the application itself

### [Open Usage Guide](guides/usage.md)

Provides more in-depth information on tools, projects, tasks, and backup/restore.

## 🎓 Video Tutorials
- [MCP Server Setup](https://youtu.be/pM5f4Vz3_IQ)
- [Projects & Workspaces](https://youtu.be/RrTDp_v9V1c)
- [Memory Management](https://youtu.be/sizjAq2-d9s)
