docs/reference/environment-variables.md, before:

# Environment Variables Reference

Agent Zero reads environment variables from two sources:

1. **`usr/.env`** — Project-local dotenv file (loaded at startup via `python-dotenv`)
2. **System environment** — Standard shell/container env vars

Variables in `usr/.env` override system environment. The file is gitignored and never committed.

---

## Authentication & Security

| Variable | Description | Values | Default | Required |
|----------|-------------|--------|---------|----------|
| `AUTH_LOGIN` | Web UI login username | Any string | *(empty)* | No |
| `AUTH_PASSWORD` | Web UI login password | Any string | *(empty)* | No |
| `ROOT_PASSWORD` | Root password for code execution container. Auto-generated (32-char alphanumeric) inside Docker if unset. | Any string | *(auto-generated in Docker)* | No |
| `RFC_PASSWORD` | Remote Function Call password for SSH/HTTP to execution sandbox | Any string | *(empty)* | No |
| `FLASK_SECRET_KEY` | Flask session signing key; auto-generated if unset | Hex string (64 chars) | Random `secrets.token_hex(32)` | No |
| `ALLOWED_ORIGINS` | Comma-separated list of allowed CORS origins for CSRF validation | URL list | *(empty — auto-populated on first visit)* | No |

**Generating secure values:**

```bash
# ROOT_PASSWORD — 32-char alphanumeric (matches Docker auto-generation format)
python3 -c "import secrets, string; print(''.join(secrets.choice(string.ascii_letters + string.digits) for _ in range(32)))"

# RFC_PASSWORD — URL-safe token
python3 -c "import secrets; print(secrets.token_urlsafe(32))"

# FLASK_SECRET_KEY — 64-char hex string (matches app's secrets.token_hex(32) format)
python3 -c "import secrets; print(secrets.token_hex(32))"
```

## Server & Networking

| Variable | Description | Values | Default | Required |
|----------|-------------|--------|---------|----------|
| `WEB_UI_HOST` | Host/IP address for the web UI server | IP or hostname | `localhost` | No |
| `WEB_UI_PORT` | Port for the web UI server | Integer | `5000` | No |
| `TUNNEL_API_PORT` | Port for the tunnel proxy API | Integer | `0` (disabled) | No |
| `FLASK_MAX_CONTENT_LENGTH` | Max upload size in bytes | Integer | `157286400` (150 MB) | No |
| `FLASK_MAX_FORM_MEMORY_SIZE` | Max form field size in bytes | Integer | `157286400` (150 MB) | No |

## API Keys (Provider Authentication)

API keys follow the primary pattern `API_KEY_{PROVIDER}` where `{PROVIDER}` matches the provider ID in `conf/model_providers.yaml` (uppercased). This is the format the app writes when saving via the web UI. Agent Zero also accepts the alternative patterns `{PROVIDER}_API_KEY` and `{PROVIDER}_API_TOKEN`.

| Variable (primary format) | Description | Required |
|---------------------------|-------------|----------|
| `API_KEY_A0_VENICE` | Agent Zero API (Venice-backed) key | When using Agent Zero API provider |
| `API_KEY_ANTHROPIC` | Anthropic API key | When using Anthropic provider |
| `API_KEY_AZURE` | Azure OpenAI API key | When using Azure provider |
| `API_KEY_BEDROCK` | AWS Bedrock API key | When using AWS Bedrock provider |
| `API_KEY_COMETAPI` | CometAPI API key | When using CometAPI provider |
| `API_KEY_DEEPSEEK` | DeepSeek API key | When using DeepSeek provider |
| `API_KEY_GITHUB_COPILOT` | GitHub Copilot API key | When using GitHub Copilot provider |
| `API_KEY_GOOGLE` | Google/Gemini API key | When using Google provider |
| `API_KEY_GROQ` | Groq API key | When using Groq provider |
| `API_KEY_HUGGINGFACE` | HuggingFace API key | When using HuggingFace provider |
| `API_KEY_LITELLM_PROXY` | LiteLLM Proxy API key | When using LiteLLM Proxy provider |
| `API_KEY_LM_STUDIO` | LM Studio API key | When using LM Studio provider |
| `API_KEY_MISTRAL` | Mistral AI API key | When using Mistral provider |
| `API_KEY_MOONSHOT` | Moonshot AI API key | When using Moonshot provider |
| `API_KEY_OLLAMA` | Ollama API key | When using Ollama provider |
| `API_KEY_OPENAI` | OpenAI API key | When using OpenAI provider |
| `API_KEY_OPENROUTER` | OpenRouter API key | When using OpenRouter provider |
| `API_KEY_OTHER` | API key for "Other OpenAI compatible" provider | When using Other provider |
| `API_KEY_SAMBANOVA` | Sambanova API key | When using Sambanova provider |
| `API_KEY_VENICE` | Venice.ai API key | When using Venice provider |
| `API_KEY_XAI` | xAI API key | When using xAI provider |
| `API_KEY_ZAI` | Z.AI API key | When using Z.AI provider |
| `API_KEY_ZAI_CODING` | Z.AI Coding API key | When using Z.AI Coding provider |

## API Base URLs (Provider Endpoints)

Custom base URLs follow the pattern `{PROVIDER}_API_BASE` (uppercased). These override the YAML defaults but are overridden by the UI settings API Base field.

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `A0_VENICE_API_BASE` | Base URL for Agent Zero API | `https://llm.agent-zero.ai/v1` (from YAML) |
| `LITELLM_PROXY_API_BASE` | Base URL for LiteLLM Proxy | `http://localhost:4000/v1` (from YAML) |
| `VENICE_API_BASE` | Base URL for Venice.ai | `https://api.venice.ai/api/v1` (from YAML) |
| `ZAI_API_BASE` | Base URL for Z.AI | `https://api.z.ai/api/paas/v4` (from YAML) |
| `ZAI_CODING_API_BASE` | Base URL for Z.AI Coding | `https://api.z.ai/api/coding/paas/v4` (from YAML) |
| `{PROVIDER}_API_BASE` | Base URL for any provider (generic pattern) | Provider-specific or empty |

## Agent Zero Internal

| Variable | Description | Values | Default | Required |
|----------|-------------|--------|---------|----------|
| `A0_PERSISTENT_RUNTIME_ID` | Persistent runtime identifier; auto-generated on first run and saved to `usr/.env` for reuse across restarts | Hex string (32 chars) | Auto-generated via `secrets.token_hex(16)` | No |
| `A0_WS_DEBUG` | Enable verbose WebSocket debug logging | `1`, `true`, `yes`, `on` | *(disabled)* | No |
| `A2A_TOKEN` | Bearer token for Agent-to-Agent (A2A) protocol authentication; sent as `Authorization: Bearer <token>` and `X-API-KEY` header. Read via `os.getenv()`, not dotenv | Any string | *(empty)* | When using A2A |
| `DEFAULT_USER_TIMEZONE` | Default timezone; auto-written from browser on first visit | IANA tz name | `UTC` | No |
| `DEFAULT_USER_UTC_OFFSET_MINUTES` | UTC offset in minutes; auto-written from browser on first visit | Integer | `0` | No |

**Generating secure values:**

```bash
# A2A_TOKEN — URL-safe bearer token for A2A protocol authentication
python3 -c "import secrets; print(secrets.token_urlsafe(32))"
```

## LiteLLM & Model Runtime

| Variable | Description | Values | Default | Required |
|----------|-------------|--------|---------|----------|
| `ANONYMIZED_TELEMETRY` | Disable browser-use library telemetry; auto-written to `usr/.env` at startup | `true`, `false` | `false` (auto-set) | No |
| `LITELLM_LOG` | LiteLLM logging verbosity (set by Agent Zero at startup) | `DEBUG`, `INFO`, `ERROR` | `ERROR` | No |
| `KMP_DUPLICATE_LIB_OK` | Set to `TRUE` to prevent OMP Error #15 crash caused by duplicate `libomp.dylib` libraries bundled in faiss, torch, and sklearn on macOS; automatically set at startup | `TRUE`, `FALSE` | `TRUE` (set at startup) | No |
| `TOKENIZERS_PARALLELISM` | HuggingFace tokenizers parallelism (set at startup to avoid fork warnings) | `true`, `false` | `false` | No |
| `TZ` | System timezone (set at startup) | IANA tz name | `UTC` | No |
| `USER_AGENT` | HTTP User-Agent for unstructured document processing | Any string | `@mixedbread-ai/unstructured` | No |

## Settings Overrides (`A0_SET_*`)

Any UI setting can be overridden via environment variable using the prefix `A0_SET_`. The value is type-coerced to match the setting's default type (bool, int, float, string, JSON dict). Case-insensitive lookup: both `A0_SET_chat_model_provider` and `A0_SET_CHAT_MODEL_PROVIDER` work.

### Chat Model

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `A0_SET_CHAT_MODEL_PROVIDER` | Chat model provider ID | `openrouter` |
| `A0_SET_CHAT_MODEL_NAME` | Chat model name | `google/gemini-3-pro-preview` |
| `A0_SET_CHAT_MODEL_API_BASE` | Chat model API base URL | *(empty)* |
| `A0_SET_CHAT_MODEL_KWARGS` | Chat model extra params (JSON) | `{"temperature": "0"}` |
| `A0_SET_CHAT_MODEL_CTX_LENGTH` | Chat model context window size | `100000` |
| `A0_SET_CHAT_MODEL_CTX_HISTORY` | Fraction of context used for history | `0.7` |
| `A0_SET_CHAT_MODEL_VISION` | Enable vision/image support | `true` |
| `A0_SET_CHAT_MODEL_RL_REQUESTS` | Rate limit: max requests (0 = unlimited) | `0` |
| `A0_SET_CHAT_MODEL_RL_INPUT` | Rate limit: max input tokens (0 = unlimited) | `0` |
| `A0_SET_CHAT_MODEL_RL_OUTPUT` | Rate limit: max output tokens (0 = unlimited) | `0` |

### Utility Model

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `A0_SET_UTIL_MODEL_PROVIDER` | Utility model provider ID | `openrouter` |
| `A0_SET_UTIL_MODEL_NAME` | Utility model name | `google/gemini-3-flash-preview` |
| `A0_SET_UTIL_MODEL_API_BASE` | Utility model API base URL | *(empty)* |
| `A0_SET_UTIL_MODEL_KWARGS` | Utility model extra params (JSON) | `{"temperature": "0"}` |
| `A0_SET_UTIL_MODEL_CTX_LENGTH` | Utility model context window size | `100000` |
| `A0_SET_UTIL_MODEL_CTX_INPUT` | Fraction of context used for input | `0.7` |
| `A0_SET_UTIL_MODEL_RL_REQUESTS` | Rate limit: max requests | `0` |
| `A0_SET_UTIL_MODEL_RL_INPUT` | Rate limit: max input tokens | `0` |
| `A0_SET_UTIL_MODEL_RL_OUTPUT` | Rate limit: max output tokens | `0` |

### Embedding Model

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `A0_SET_EMBED_MODEL_PROVIDER` | Embedding model provider ID | `huggingface` |
| `A0_SET_EMBED_MODEL_NAME` | Embedding model name | `sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2` |
| `A0_SET_EMBED_MODEL_API_BASE` | Embedding model API base URL | *(empty)* |
| `A0_SET_EMBED_MODEL_KWARGS` | Embedding model extra params (JSON) | `{}` |
| `A0_SET_EMBED_MODEL_RL_REQUESTS` | Rate limit: max requests | `0` |
| `A0_SET_EMBED_MODEL_RL_INPUT` | Rate limit: max input tokens | `0` |

### Browser Model

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `A0_SET_BROWSER_MODEL_PROVIDER` | Browser model provider ID | `openrouter` |
| `A0_SET_BROWSER_MODEL_NAME` | Browser model name | `google/gemini-3-pro-preview` |
| `A0_SET_BROWSER_MODEL_API_BASE` | Browser model API base URL | *(empty)* |
| `A0_SET_BROWSER_MODEL_KWARGS` | Browser model extra params (JSON) | `{"temperature": "0"}` |
| `A0_SET_BROWSER_MODEL_VISION` | Enable vision for browser model | `true` |
| `A0_SET_BROWSER_HTTP_HEADERS` | Extra HTTP headers for browser (JSON) | `{}` |
| `A0_SET_BROWSER_MODEL_RL_REQUESTS` | Rate limit: max requests | `0` |
| `A0_SET_BROWSER_MODEL_RL_INPUT` | Rate limit: max input tokens | `0` |
| `A0_SET_BROWSER_MODEL_RL_OUTPUT` | Rate limit: max output tokens | `0` |

### Memory & Recall

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_RECALL_ENABLED` | Enable automatic memory recall | `true` |
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_RECALL_DELAYED` | Delay recall until after first response | `false` |
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_RECALL_INTERVAL` | Recall every N messages | `3` |
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_RECALL_HISTORY_LEN` | Max history tokens used for recall queries | `10000` |
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_RECALL_MEMORIES_MAX_SEARCH` | Max memory entries to search | `12` |
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_RECALL_SOLUTIONS_MAX_SEARCH` | Max solution entries to search | `8` |
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_RECALL_MEMORIES_MAX_RESULT` | Max memory entries returned | `5` |
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_RECALL_SOLUTIONS_MAX_RESULT` | Max solution entries returned | `3` |
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_RECALL_SIMILARITY_THRESHOLD` | Minimum cosine similarity for recall | `0.7` |
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_RECALL_QUERY_PREP` | Use LLM to prepare recall queries | `false` |
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_RECALL_POST_FILTER` | Use LLM to post-filter recalled memories | `false` |
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_MEMORIZE_ENABLED` | Enable automatic memorization | `true` |
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_MEMORIZE_CONSOLIDATION` | Enable memory consolidation/dedup | `true` |
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_MEMORIZE_REPLACE_THRESHOLD` | Cosine similarity threshold for replacing similar memories | `0.9` |

### Agent & Workspace

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `A0_SET_AGENT_PROFILE` | Default agent profile subdirectory | `agent0` |
| `A0_SET_AGENT_MEMORY_SUBDIR` | Memory storage subdirectory | `default` |
| `A0_SET_AGENT_KNOWLEDGE_SUBDIR` | Knowledge base subdirectory | `custom` |
| `A0_SET_WORKDIR_PATH` | Working directory path | `usr/workdir` |
| `A0_SET_WORKDIR_GITIGNORE` | Gitignore patterns for working directory listing | *(auto-generated)* |
| `A0_SET_WORKDIR_SHOW` | Show working directory contents in prompt | `true` |
| `A0_SET_WORKDIR_MAX_DEPTH` | Max directory tree depth | `5` |
| `A0_SET_WORKDIR_MAX_FILES` | Max files shown per directory | `20` |
| `A0_SET_WORKDIR_MAX_FOLDERS` | Max folders shown per directory | `20` |
| `A0_SET_WORKDIR_MAX_LINES` | Max lines shown per file | `250` |

### Code Execution (RFC)

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `A0_SET_RFC_AUTO_DOCKER` | Auto-start Docker execution container | `true` |
| `A0_SET_RFC_URL` | RFC server hostname | `localhost` |
| `A0_SET_RFC_PORT_HTTP` | RFC HTTP port | `55080` |
| `A0_SET_RFC_PORT_SSH` | RFC SSH port | `55022` |
| `A0_SET_SHELL_INTERFACE` | Shell interface type | `local` (Docker) / `ssh` (dev) |

### Speech & TTS

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `A0_SET_STT_MODEL_SIZE` | Whisper model size | `base` |
| `A0_SET_STT_LANGUAGE` | Speech-to-text language | `en` |
| `A0_SET_STT_SILENCE_THRESHOLD` | Silence detection threshold | `0.3` |
| `A0_SET_STT_SILENCE_DURATION` | Silence duration before stop (ms) | `1000` |
| `A0_SET_STT_WAITING_TIMEOUT` | Waiting timeout before stop (ms) | `2000` |
| `A0_SET_TTS_KOKORO` | Use Kokoro TTS engine | `true` |

### MCP & A2A Servers

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `A0_SET_MCP_SERVERS` | MCP server configurations (JSON) | `{"mcpServers": {}}` |
| `A0_SET_MCP_CLIENT_INIT_TIMEOUT` | MCP client initialization timeout (seconds) | `10` |
| `A0_SET_MCP_CLIENT_TOOL_TIMEOUT` | MCP tool execution timeout (seconds) | `120` |
| `A0_SET_MCP_SERVER_ENABLED` | Enable built-in MCP server | `false` |
| `A0_SET_A2A_SERVER_ENABLED` | Enable Agent-to-Agent server | `false` |

### Miscellaneous

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `A0_SET_WEBSOCKET_SERVER_RESTART_ENABLED` | Broadcast server restart events to clients | `true` |
| `A0_SET_UVICORN_ACCESS_LOGS_ENABLED` | Enable uvicorn HTTP access logs | `false` |
| `A0_SET_LITELLM_GLOBAL_KWARGS` | Global LiteLLM kwargs applied to all models (JSON) | `{}` |
| `A0_SET_UPDATE_CHECK_ENABLED` | Check for updates on startup | `true` |

### Internal (Auto-Managed)

These settings exist in the `Settings` TypedDict but are auto-managed by the application. They should not be overridden via `A0_SET_*` environment variables.

| Variable | Description | Managed By |
|----------|-------------|------------|
| `A0_SET_MCP_SERVER_TOKEN` | MCP/A2A server authentication token | Auto-generated (`create_auth_token()`) on first run |
| `A0_SET_VARIABLES` | User-defined template variables | Settings > Variables UI tab |
| `A0_SET_SECRETS` | User-defined secrets content | Settings > Secrets UI tab (stored in `usr/secrets.env`) |

## Secrets Store (`usr/secrets.env`)

Agent Zero has a dedicated secrets file at `usr/secrets.env`, separate from `usr/.env`. This file is managed through the web UI (Settings > Secrets) and supports:

- Standard `.env` key-value format
- `§§secret(KEY)` placeholder syntax for agents to reference secrets without exposing raw values
- Streaming output masking to prevent secret leakage in LLM responses
- Per-project secrets in `.a0proj/secrets.env` (when using Projects)

> **Do not edit `usr/secrets.env` manually** — use the Settings UI instead. The merge logic preserves comments and key ordering.

## Branding Configuration

Customize the project identity displayed in the UI, notifications, HTTP headers, and LLM prompts. All values are optional. Default values create an "Apollos AI" branded experience.

These variables are read by `python/helpers/branding.py` at import time and used across the application wherever the project name, URL, or GitHub link appears.

| Variable | Description | Default | Required |
|----------|-------------|---------|----------|
| `BRAND_NAME` | Display name shown in the UI, browser title, HTTP headers, and system prompts | `Apollos AI` | No |
| `BRAND_SLUG` | URL-safe and filename-safe identifier used in paths and generated assets | `apollos-ai` | No |
| `BRAND_URL` | Project website URL displayed in the UI footer and about pages | `https://apollos.ai` | No |
| `BRAND_GITHUB_URL` | GitHub repository URL used for source links and update checks | `https://github.com/jrmatherly/agent-zero` | No |

**Example — custom branding for a white-label deployment:**

```bash
# In usr/.env
BRAND_NAME=My Custom AI
BRAND_SLUG=my-custom-ai
BRAND_URL=https://mycustomai.example.com
BRAND_GITHUB_URL=https://github.com/myorg/my-custom-ai
```

## Docker & Container

Used when running Agent Zero in Docker. See `Dockerfile`, `DockerfileLocal`, and `docker/run/`.

| Variable | Description | Values | Default | Required |
|----------|-------------|--------|---------|----------|
| `BRANCH` | Git branch to build from; `local` uses local files instead of cloning | Branch name or `local` | `local` (DockerfileLocal) / *(none)* (production) | Build-time |
| `DEBUG` | Enable verbose logging in supervisord event listener | Any value | *(disabled)* | No |
| `SEARXNG_SETTINGS_PATH` | Path to SearXNG configuration file | File path | `/etc/searxng/settings.yml` | No |
| `SEARXNG_SECRET` | Secret key for SearXNG instance security. Overrides the `secret_key` in SearXNG's `settings.yml`. | Any string | *(none)* | When using SearXNG |

**Generating secure values:**

```bash
# SEARXNG_SECRET — random secret for SearXNG Flask app
python3 -c "import secrets; print(secrets.token_hex(32))"
```

## Email Test Variables

Used only by `tests/email_parser_test.py`:

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `TEST_SERVER_TYPE` | Email server type | `imap` |
| `TEST_EMAIL_SERVER` | Email server hostname | *(none)* |
| `TEST_EMAIL_PORT` | Email server port | `993` |
| `TEST_EMAIL_USERNAME` | Email account username | *(none)* |
| `TEST_EMAIL_PASSWORD` | Email account password | *(none)* |

Commit message:

feat: Rename project from Agent Zero to Apollos AI and update associated agent files and configuration.

docs/reference/environment-variables.md, after:

# Environment Variables Reference

Apollos AI reads environment variables from two sources:

1. **`usr/.env`** — Project-local dotenv file (loaded at startup via `python-dotenv`)
2. **System environment** — Standard shell/container env vars

Variables in `usr/.env` override system environment. The file is gitignored and never committed.

---

## Authentication & Security

| Variable | Description | Values | Default | Required |
|----------|-------------|--------|---------|----------|
| `AUTH_LOGIN` | Web UI login username | Any string | *(empty)* | No |
| `AUTH_PASSWORD` | Web UI login password | Any string | *(empty)* | No |
| `ROOT_PASSWORD` | Root password for code execution container. Auto-generated (32-char alphanumeric) inside Docker if unset. | Any string | *(auto-generated in Docker)* | No |
| `RFC_PASSWORD` | Remote Function Call password for SSH/HTTP to execution sandbox | Any string | *(empty)* | No |
| `FLASK_SECRET_KEY` | Flask session signing key; auto-generated if unset | Hex string (64 chars) | Random `secrets.token_hex(32)` | No |
| `ALLOWED_ORIGINS` | Comma-separated list of allowed CORS origins for CSRF validation | URL list | *(empty — auto-populated on first visit)* | No |

**Generating secure values:**

```bash
# ROOT_PASSWORD — 32-char alphanumeric (matches Docker auto-generation format)
python3 -c "import secrets, string; print(''.join(secrets.choice(string.ascii_letters + string.digits) for _ in range(32)))"

# RFC_PASSWORD — URL-safe token
python3 -c "import secrets; print(secrets.token_urlsafe(32))"

# FLASK_SECRET_KEY — 64-char hex string (matches app's secrets.token_hex(32) format)
python3 -c "import secrets; print(secrets.token_hex(32))"
```

## Server & Networking

| Variable | Description | Values | Default | Required |
|----------|-------------|--------|---------|----------|
| `WEB_UI_HOST` | Host/IP address for the web UI server | IP or hostname | `localhost` | No |
| `WEB_UI_PORT` | Port for the web UI server | Integer | `5000` | No |
| `TUNNEL_API_PORT` | Port for the tunnel proxy API | Integer | `0` (disabled) | No |
| `FLASK_MAX_CONTENT_LENGTH` | Max upload size in bytes | Integer | `157286400` (150 MB) | No |
| `FLASK_MAX_FORM_MEMORY_SIZE` | Max form field size in bytes | Integer | `157286400` (150 MB) | No |

## API Keys (Provider Authentication)

API keys follow the primary pattern `API_KEY_{PROVIDER}` where `{PROVIDER}` matches the provider ID in `conf/model_providers.yaml` (uppercased). This is the format the app writes when saving via the web UI. Apollos AI also accepts the alternative patterns `{PROVIDER}_API_KEY` and `{PROVIDER}_API_TOKEN`.

| Variable (primary format) | Description | Required |
|---------------------------|-------------|----------|
| `API_KEY_A0_VENICE` | Apollos AI API (Venice-backed) key | When using Apollos AI API provider |
| `API_KEY_ANTHROPIC` | Anthropic API key | When using Anthropic provider |
| `API_KEY_AZURE` | Azure OpenAI API key | When using Azure provider |
| `API_KEY_BEDROCK` | AWS Bedrock API key | When using AWS Bedrock provider |
| `API_KEY_COMETAPI` | CometAPI API key | When using CometAPI provider |
| `API_KEY_DEEPSEEK` | DeepSeek API key | When using DeepSeek provider |
| `API_KEY_GITHUB_COPILOT` | GitHub Copilot API key | When using GitHub Copilot provider |
| `API_KEY_GOOGLE` | Google/Gemini API key | When using Google provider |
| `API_KEY_GROQ` | Groq API key | When using Groq provider |
| `API_KEY_HUGGINGFACE` | HuggingFace API key | When using HuggingFace provider |
| `API_KEY_LITELLM_PROXY` | LiteLLM Proxy API key | When using LiteLLM Proxy provider |
| `API_KEY_LM_STUDIO` | LM Studio API key | When using LM Studio provider |
| `API_KEY_MISTRAL` | Mistral AI API key | When using Mistral provider |
| `API_KEY_MOONSHOT` | Moonshot AI API key | When using Moonshot provider |
| `API_KEY_OLLAMA` | Ollama API key | When using Ollama provider |
| `API_KEY_OPENAI` | OpenAI API key | When using OpenAI provider |
| `API_KEY_OPENROUTER` | OpenRouter API key | When using OpenRouter provider |
| `API_KEY_OTHER` | API key for "Other OpenAI compatible" provider | When using Other provider |
| `API_KEY_SAMBANOVA` | Sambanova API key | When using Sambanova provider |
| `API_KEY_VENICE` | Venice.ai API key | When using Venice provider |
| `API_KEY_XAI` | xAI API key | When using xAI provider |
| `API_KEY_ZAI` | Z.AI API key | When using Z.AI provider |
| `API_KEY_ZAI_CODING` | Z.AI Coding API key | When using Z.AI Coding provider |

## API Base URLs (Provider Endpoints)

Custom base URLs follow the pattern `{PROVIDER}_API_BASE` (uppercased). These override the YAML defaults but are overridden by the UI settings API Base field.

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `A0_VENICE_API_BASE` | Base URL for Apollos AI API | `https://llm.apollos-ai.ai/v1` (from YAML) |
| `LITELLM_PROXY_API_BASE` | Base URL for LiteLLM Proxy | `http://localhost:4000/v1` (from YAML) |
| `VENICE_API_BASE` | Base URL for Venice.ai | `https://api.venice.ai/api/v1` (from YAML) |
| `ZAI_API_BASE` | Base URL for Z.AI | `https://api.z.ai/api/paas/v4` (from YAML) |
| `ZAI_CODING_API_BASE` | Base URL for Z.AI Coding | `https://api.z.ai/api/coding/paas/v4` (from YAML) |
| `{PROVIDER}_API_BASE` | Base URL for any provider (generic pattern) | Provider-specific or empty |

## Apollos AI Internal

| Variable | Description | Values | Default | Required |
|----------|-------------|--------|---------|----------|
| `A0_PERSISTENT_RUNTIME_ID` | Persistent runtime identifier; auto-generated on first run and saved to `usr/.env` for reuse across restarts | Hex string (32 chars) | Auto-generated via `secrets.token_hex(16)` | No |
| `A0_WS_DEBUG` | Enable verbose WebSocket debug logging | `1`, `true`, `yes`, `on` | *(disabled)* | No |
| `A2A_TOKEN` | Bearer token for Agent-to-Agent (A2A) protocol authentication; sent as `Authorization: Bearer <token>` and `X-API-KEY` header. Read via `os.getenv()`, not dotenv | Any string | *(empty)* | When using A2A |
| `DEFAULT_USER_TIMEZONE` | Default timezone; auto-written from browser on first visit | IANA tz name | `UTC` | No |
| `DEFAULT_USER_UTC_OFFSET_MINUTES` | UTC offset in minutes; auto-written from browser on first visit | Integer | `0` | No |

**Generating secure values:**

```bash
# A2A_TOKEN — URL-safe bearer token for A2A protocol authentication
python3 -c "import secrets; print(secrets.token_urlsafe(32))"
```

## LiteLLM & Model Runtime

| Variable | Description | Values | Default | Required |
|----------|-------------|--------|---------|----------|
| `ANONYMIZED_TELEMETRY` | Disable browser-use library telemetry; auto-written to `usr/.env` at startup | `true`, `false` | `false` (auto-set) | No |
| `LITELLM_LOG` | LiteLLM logging verbosity (set by Apollos AI at startup) | `DEBUG`, `INFO`, `ERROR` | `ERROR` | No |
| `KMP_DUPLICATE_LIB_OK` | Set to `TRUE` to prevent OMP Error #15 crash caused by duplicate `libomp.dylib` libraries bundled in faiss, torch, and sklearn on macOS; automatically set at startup | `TRUE`, `FALSE` | `TRUE` (set at startup) | No |
| `TOKENIZERS_PARALLELISM` | HuggingFace tokenizers parallelism (set at startup to avoid fork warnings) | `true`, `false` | `false` | No |
| `TZ` | System timezone (set at startup) | IANA tz name | `UTC` | No |
| `USER_AGENT` | HTTP User-Agent for unstructured document processing | Any string | `@mixedbread-ai/unstructured` | No |

## Settings Overrides (`A0_SET_*`)

Any UI setting can be overridden via environment variable using the prefix `A0_SET_`. The value is type-coerced to match the setting's default type (bool, int, float, string, JSON dict). Case-insensitive lookup: both `A0_SET_chat_model_provider` and `A0_SET_CHAT_MODEL_PROVIDER` work.

### Chat Model

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `A0_SET_CHAT_MODEL_PROVIDER` | Chat model provider ID | `openrouter` |
| `A0_SET_CHAT_MODEL_NAME` | Chat model name | `google/gemini-3-pro-preview` |
| `A0_SET_CHAT_MODEL_API_BASE` | Chat model API base URL | *(empty)* |
| `A0_SET_CHAT_MODEL_KWARGS` | Chat model extra params (JSON) | `{"temperature": "0"}` |
| `A0_SET_CHAT_MODEL_CTX_LENGTH` | Chat model context window size | `100000` |
| `A0_SET_CHAT_MODEL_CTX_HISTORY` | Fraction of context used for history | `0.7` |
| `A0_SET_CHAT_MODEL_VISION` | Enable vision/image support | `true` |
| `A0_SET_CHAT_MODEL_RL_REQUESTS` | Rate limit: max requests (0 = unlimited) | `0` |
| `A0_SET_CHAT_MODEL_RL_INPUT` | Rate limit: max input tokens (0 = unlimited) | `0` |
| `A0_SET_CHAT_MODEL_RL_OUTPUT` | Rate limit: max output tokens (0 = unlimited) | `0` |

### Utility Model

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `A0_SET_UTIL_MODEL_PROVIDER` | Utility model provider ID | `openrouter` |
| `A0_SET_UTIL_MODEL_NAME` | Utility model name | `google/gemini-3-flash-preview` |
| `A0_SET_UTIL_MODEL_API_BASE` | Utility model API base URL | *(empty)* |
| `A0_SET_UTIL_MODEL_KWARGS` | Utility model extra params (JSON) | `{"temperature": "0"}` |
| `A0_SET_UTIL_MODEL_CTX_LENGTH` | Utility model context window size | `100000` |
| `A0_SET_UTIL_MODEL_CTX_INPUT` | Fraction of context used for input | `0.7` |
| `A0_SET_UTIL_MODEL_RL_REQUESTS` | Rate limit: max requests | `0` |
| `A0_SET_UTIL_MODEL_RL_INPUT` | Rate limit: max input tokens | `0` |
| `A0_SET_UTIL_MODEL_RL_OUTPUT` | Rate limit: max output tokens | `0` |

### Embedding Model

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `A0_SET_EMBED_MODEL_PROVIDER` | Embedding model provider ID | `huggingface` |
| `A0_SET_EMBED_MODEL_NAME` | Embedding model name | `sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2` |
| `A0_SET_EMBED_MODEL_API_BASE` | Embedding model API base URL | *(empty)* |
| `A0_SET_EMBED_MODEL_KWARGS` | Embedding model extra params (JSON) | `{}` |
| `A0_SET_EMBED_MODEL_RL_REQUESTS` | Rate limit: max requests | `0` |
| `A0_SET_EMBED_MODEL_RL_INPUT` | Rate limit: max input tokens | `0` |

### Browser Model

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `A0_SET_BROWSER_MODEL_PROVIDER` | Browser model provider ID | `openrouter` |
| `A0_SET_BROWSER_MODEL_NAME` | Browser model name | `google/gemini-3-pro-preview` |
| `A0_SET_BROWSER_MODEL_API_BASE` | Browser model API base URL | *(empty)* |
| `A0_SET_BROWSER_MODEL_KWARGS` | Browser model extra params (JSON) | `{"temperature": "0"}` |
| `A0_SET_BROWSER_MODEL_VISION` | Enable vision for browser model | `true` |
| `A0_SET_BROWSER_HTTP_HEADERS` | Extra HTTP headers for browser (JSON) | `{}` |
| `A0_SET_BROWSER_MODEL_RL_REQUESTS` | Rate limit: max requests | `0` |
| `A0_SET_BROWSER_MODEL_RL_INPUT` | Rate limit: max input tokens | `0` |
| `A0_SET_BROWSER_MODEL_RL_OUTPUT` | Rate limit: max output tokens | `0` |

### Memory & Recall

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_RECALL_ENABLED` | Enable automatic memory recall | `true` |
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_RECALL_DELAYED` | Delay recall until after first response | `false` |
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_RECALL_INTERVAL` | Recall every N messages | `3` |
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_RECALL_HISTORY_LEN` | Max history tokens used for recall queries | `10000` |
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_RECALL_MEMORIES_MAX_SEARCH` | Max memory entries to search | `12` |
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_RECALL_SOLUTIONS_MAX_SEARCH` | Max solution entries to search | `8` |
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_RECALL_MEMORIES_MAX_RESULT` | Max memory entries returned | `5` |
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_RECALL_SOLUTIONS_MAX_RESULT` | Max solution entries returned | `3` |
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_RECALL_SIMILARITY_THRESHOLD` | Minimum cosine similarity for recall | `0.7` |
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_RECALL_QUERY_PREP` | Use LLM to prepare recall queries | `false` |
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_RECALL_POST_FILTER` | Use LLM to post-filter recalled memories | `false` |
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_MEMORIZE_ENABLED` | Enable automatic memorization | `true` |
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_MEMORIZE_CONSOLIDATION` | Enable memory consolidation/dedup | `true` |
| `A0_SET_MEMORY_MEMORIZE_REPLACE_THRESHOLD` | Cosine similarity threshold for replacing similar memories | `0.9` |

### Agent & Workspace

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `A0_SET_AGENT_PROFILE` | Default agent profile subdirectory | `apollos` |
| `A0_SET_AGENT_MEMORY_SUBDIR` | Memory storage subdirectory | `default` |
| `A0_SET_AGENT_KNOWLEDGE_SUBDIR` | Knowledge base subdirectory | `custom` |
| `A0_SET_WORKDIR_PATH` | Working directory path | `usr/workdir` |
| `A0_SET_WORKDIR_GITIGNORE` | Gitignore patterns for working directory listing | *(auto-generated)* |
| `A0_SET_WORKDIR_SHOW` | Show working directory contents in prompt | `true` |
| `A0_SET_WORKDIR_MAX_DEPTH` | Max directory tree depth | `5` |
| `A0_SET_WORKDIR_MAX_FILES` | Max files shown per directory | `20` |
| `A0_SET_WORKDIR_MAX_FOLDERS` | Max folders shown per directory | `20` |
| `A0_SET_WORKDIR_MAX_LINES` | Max lines shown per file | `250` |

### Code Execution (RFC)

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `A0_SET_RFC_AUTO_DOCKER` | Auto-start Docker execution container | `true` |
| `A0_SET_RFC_URL` | RFC server hostname | `localhost` |
| `A0_SET_RFC_PORT_HTTP` | RFC HTTP port | `55080` |
| `A0_SET_RFC_PORT_SSH` | RFC SSH port | `55022` |
| `A0_SET_SHELL_INTERFACE` | Shell interface type | `local` (Docker) / `ssh` (dev) |

### Speech & TTS

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `A0_SET_STT_MODEL_SIZE` | Whisper model size | `base` |
| `A0_SET_STT_LANGUAGE` | Speech-to-text language | `en` |
| `A0_SET_STT_SILENCE_THRESHOLD` | Silence detection threshold | `0.3` |
| `A0_SET_STT_SILENCE_DURATION` | Silence duration before stop (ms) | `1000` |
| `A0_SET_STT_WAITING_TIMEOUT` | Waiting timeout before stop (ms) | `2000` |
| `A0_SET_TTS_KOKORO` | Use Kokoro TTS engine | `true` |

### MCP & A2A Servers

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `A0_SET_MCP_SERVERS` | MCP server configurations (JSON) | `{"mcpServers": {}}` |
| `A0_SET_MCP_CLIENT_INIT_TIMEOUT` | MCP client initialization timeout (seconds) | `10` |
| `A0_SET_MCP_CLIENT_TOOL_TIMEOUT` | MCP tool execution timeout (seconds) | `120` |
| `A0_SET_MCP_SERVER_ENABLED` | Enable built-in MCP server | `false` |
| `A0_SET_A2A_SERVER_ENABLED` | Enable Agent-to-Agent server | `false` |

### Miscellaneous

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `A0_SET_WEBSOCKET_SERVER_RESTART_ENABLED` | Broadcast server restart events to clients | `true` |
| `A0_SET_UVICORN_ACCESS_LOGS_ENABLED` | Enable uvicorn HTTP access logs | `false` |
| `A0_SET_LITELLM_GLOBAL_KWARGS` | Global LiteLLM kwargs applied to all models (JSON) | `{}` |
| `A0_SET_UPDATE_CHECK_ENABLED` | Check for updates on startup | `true` |

### Internal (Auto-Managed)

These settings exist in the `Settings` TypedDict but are auto-managed by the application. They should not be overridden via `A0_SET_*` environment variables.

| Variable | Description | Managed By |
|----------|-------------|------------|
| `A0_SET_MCP_SERVER_TOKEN` | MCP/A2A server authentication token | Auto-generated (`create_auth_token()`) on first run |
| `A0_SET_VARIABLES` | User-defined template variables | Settings > Variables UI tab |
| `A0_SET_SECRETS` | User-defined secrets content | Settings > Secrets UI tab (stored in `usr/secrets.env`) |

## Secrets Store (`usr/secrets.env`)

Apollos AI has a dedicated secrets file at `usr/secrets.env`, separate from `usr/.env`. This file is managed through the web UI (Settings > Secrets) and supports:

- Standard `.env` key-value format
- `§§secret(KEY)` placeholder syntax for agents to reference secrets without exposing raw values
- Streaming output masking to prevent secret leakage in LLM responses
- Per-project secrets in `.a0proj/secrets.env` (when using Projects)

> **Do not edit `usr/secrets.env` manually** — use the Settings UI instead. The merge logic preserves comments and key ordering.

## Branding Configuration

Customize the project identity displayed in the UI, notifications, HTTP headers, and LLM prompts. All values are optional. Default values create an "Apollos AI" branded experience.

These variables are read by `python/helpers/branding.py` at import time and used across the application wherever the project name, URL, or GitHub link appears.

| Variable | Description | Default | Required |
|----------|-------------|---------|----------|
| `BRAND_NAME` | Display name shown in the UI, browser title, HTTP headers, and system prompts | `Apollos AI` | No |
| `BRAND_SLUG` | URL-safe and filename-safe identifier used in paths and generated assets | `apollos-ai` | No |
| `BRAND_URL` | Project website URL displayed in the UI footer and about pages | `https://apollos.ai` | No |
| `BRAND_GITHUB_URL` | GitHub repository URL used for source links and update checks | `https://github.com/jrmatherly/apollos-ai` | No |

**Example — custom branding for a white-label deployment:**

```bash
# In usr/.env
BRAND_NAME=My Custom AI
BRAND_SLUG=my-custom-ai
BRAND_URL=https://mycustomai.example.com
BRAND_GITHUB_URL=https://github.com/myorg/my-custom-ai
```

## Docker & Container

Used when running Apollos AI in Docker. See `Dockerfile`, `DockerfileLocal`, and `docker/run/`.

| Variable | Description | Values | Default | Required |
|----------|-------------|--------|---------|----------|
| `BRANCH` | Git branch to build from; `local` uses local files instead of cloning | Branch name or `local` | `local` (DockerfileLocal) / *(none)* (production) | Build-time |
| `DEBUG` | Enable verbose logging in supervisord event listener | Any value | *(disabled)* | No |
| `SEARXNG_SETTINGS_PATH` | Path to SearXNG configuration file | File path | `/etc/searxng/settings.yml` | No |
| `SEARXNG_SECRET` | Secret key for SearXNG instance security. Overrides the `secret_key` in SearXNG's `settings.yml`. | Any string | *(none)* | When using SearXNG |

**Generating secure values:**

```bash
# SEARXNG_SECRET — random secret for SearXNG Flask app
python3 -c "import secrets; print(secrets.token_hex(32))"
```

## Email Test Variables

Used only by `tests/email_parser_test.py`:

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `TEST_SERVER_TYPE` | Email server type | `imap` |
| `TEST_EMAIL_SERVER` | Email server hostname | *(none)* |
| `TEST_EMAIL_PORT` | Email server port | `993` |
| `TEST_EMAIL_USERNAME` | Email account username | *(none)* |
| `TEST_EMAIL_PASSWORD` | Email account password | *(none)* |
